Just to
speak to the significance
of what it means here in Israel.
Everywhere you go,
you see the fliers of these hostages,
the ones that you see in the U.S.
and London and other countries.
And you can see there,
that is the convoy.
We don't know who's inside this convoy,
but you can see, John, that convoy
making its way
through the Rafah
crossing
that is a crossing between Gaza and Egypt
right now.
You can hear cheers
and horns honking
on
again.
We're looking at pictures
right now
from the Rafah crossing of a convoy
moving through with beeping
and honking at the Red Cross convoy.
We cannot know for certain
who is part of that convoy right now,
if the hostages are part of it.
But you did hear some honking,
some celebration there.
Unclear to me
exactly where that celebration
would be coming from
if it was
the Red Cross
convoy carrying those hostages.
But we are seeing that activity at Rafah
right here, which will be a key
transit point, Katelyn,
for these hostages as they move through.
And you brought up another point here.
One of the things, the developments
the twists
today is not
only has the number of hostages
been turned over
from Hamas
to the Red
Cross, believed to be Israeli hostages,
but several
Thai hostages, people
from Thailand who had been held.
We understand
they've been turned over as well.
And it's not completely clear
if those two groups are traveling
together or separate
at this point, Kaitlin?
Yeah, that is still something
that we're trying to figure out.
And this is a really fast moving process.
I mean, it's taking time for them
to get from place to place.
But there are several different layers
of government
involved here, different governments
that are involved in this process.
This had been something
that as we were hearing,
as Israel and Hamas
were getting closer to this deal,
which was being negotiated by Qatar,
that there were also questions
of other governments
also negotiating
for their foreign nationals
who were being held by Hamas in Gaza
to also be released.
You know, a lot of these
that we had heard of
that had been taken into into Gaza.
The point of this
and what we were hearing
as we were talking about this
from the ideological perspective is
a lot of these were laborers
who were at the kibbutz.
And that is something that we heard,
you know, when I went to kibbutz
is a theme.
They talked about the laborers
who had just been been working there
at that
that particular kibbutz
and the fact that they had
also been taken hostage.
Some of these are people who
they're not Jewish they're not Israeli.
Yet they were also taken by Hamas
into Gaza.
And so that is something
we're watching with the numbers here,
because that has been
another critical part of this
is that ultimately
we're told
it's 50 hostages that are being released.
We got this additional information
just a short time ago
ago from Egyptian officials
that these Thai nationals
are also part of this.
It is still a question
of whether or not
they are moving in this group together,
whether all of them were in that convoy
that we saw just passed
through the Rafah crossing.
Those are things
that we'll have better clarity on
once they've made it through.
We do know
Israel expects
to publish a list of
who has made it into Israel.
Once those hostages have made it here.
They said they will not do so beforehand.
And so that is something
that we're watching very closely.
I know
CNN's international anchor Becky Anderson
also tracking this closely.
And Becky,
you've been checking in
with sources
about the Thai nationals
who are also being released
by Hamas today.
What else are you hearing about?
Not just that,
but also what we just saw happen,
that convoy
the Red Cross convoy passing
through the Rafah crossing.
That's right.
They just left Gaza through that crossing
and they will be making their way
through that crossing on a few.
If you were doing
that as a normal individual,
it would take some time
to get through that crossing.
But clearly,
that Red Cross convoy
will move very quickly
through that crossing and into Egypt.
As we understand it,
this group of Israeli
hostages are traveling in the same convoy
as these Thai nationals,
Thai nationals
and their release was a separate
and unconditional deal and struck.
And separately from the hostage deal,
Hamas, Israel,
that was baked into this wider
humanitarian pause.
I did put this question
about whether there was
any separate tracks being negotiated
by the
country mediators
to the spokesman
of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Just yesterday,
and he described this
without answering the question
specifically.
He described this
as a humanitarian effort.
So I think what we can understand
from that
is that the Thai minister
who was here in Doha a week or so ago,
had successfully worked with the country
mediation team with support
from the Egyptians and others,
including the United States.
Of course, he's been
very, very, very involved
in what has been going on between
Israel and Hamas.
The Thais have been able to to pull off
a separate and unconditional deal
to ensure
that some of those Thai nationals
who got caught up in this workers
at these
at these kibbutzim
have also been released.
Now, I think we have to be very clear
that we are not absolutely sure
of the numbers as we understood it.
We were looking at 12
Thai nationals to be released
into ICR hands, ICRC hands today.
And of course as we understood it,
there will be 13
Israeli hostages released by Hamas
as part of the main deal
to be released
into the hands of the ICRC.
I think what we need to do now
is just wait to see
who is in those convoys
as they leave Egypt
and then make their way into Israel
if indeed that is
what the ties are doing.
One probably make a
sort of a loose assumption
that everybody
will be traveling
together now into Israel,
into the hands of the IDF.
And we've been reporting
all morning, haven't we, about the
the sensitivities
with which
the IDF
will be dealing
with those Israeli hostages
and specifically the
and we have to assume that they've got
we know that they got
specific instructions
about how to deal with the
with the kids who've been,
you know, through this traumatic ordeal.
One can I mean, one
can't even imagine it.
I mean, I'm a mom,
but you don't have to be a mom to
to to try and imagine
what it is that everybody's been through,
not least these little kids.
And we don't know who's being released,
specifically the Thai authorities do know
and who is released today in that group.
But what we do know
is that they are all traveling together
in that convoy
you've just seen
go through the Rafah crossing
from the Gaza side, traveling
into the Egypt side
and then into into Israel
as assets things stand at the moment.
Again, we've been saying this
all morning.
We're nearly 2 hours
after
what was the scheduled
release of these hostages.
This has happened
a lot quicker,
I think, than perhaps
many people had anticipated.
And, you know, that's a good thing.
And obviously,
now we just have to
wait to see what happens
when when when we get
some sort of iSight on on these hostages
as they are as they are
delivered to the IDF and then obviously
into the
care of psychologists, hospital
workers, medics,
some are going to need treatment.
We don't know whom
we don't know how they are at this stage.
But this is
at least
just seeing those scenes of that
Red Cross convoy to cheers going through
that border crossing
it just suggests where we are at.
This is the biggest
diplomatic breakthrough
since this conflict began.
Let's remember
just a couple of weeks ago,
the UN Security Council
finally got a resolution through asking
pushing for
not just one,
but multiple humanitarian pauses
at this stage.
We have this one.
It's four days plus an extension
if Hamas are prepared
to release more hostages.
But let's just
see how this goes today,
whether all 25 hostages are indeed
in that convoy, whether those numbers
are sufficient
to suggest that
Hamas has fulfilled its obligations.
We don't know that
because we can't see who's
in those convoys.
But we do know that it was expected
that there would be 13 Israeli
hostages and 12 ties
At this point, it is not clear
how many people are in those calls.